In the previous video we have successfully
connecting mikrotik and Cisco router to our
computer, then in this video we will learn
how to configure SSH on Cisco and mikrotik router
so we will able to remote the router
from our computer.
Okay, now let’s configure SSH on Cisco router
first. To configure SSH on Cisco
first we must create a username, in this case we will
create a username cisco and passcword cisco.
Also, we need to set the user privileges to
15.
Then we have to set a domain name, for example,
I will set the domain name to mydomain.local
Next we need to create a key by typing crypto
key generate RSA, use 1024 modulus
Last, go to line vty 0 15, then type Login local
and Exit, login local mean that we need to
use local username & password database to
login to the router by ssh
Until now, we have finished configure SSH
on the Cisco router, Now let’s try to remote
the cisco router using SSH,
Open a putty. Type the cisco router address,
then select SSH and Open . Yes, login as cisco,
and the password is cisco.
Oke, now we have successfully remote the cisco
router using ssh,
Okey, we have done with cisco, now let’s
take a look to mikrotik. In the mikrotik,
SSH is active by default, so we don't need
to configure anything.
just open a new putty, then type mikrotik
address, choose ssh and open. Yes
login as admin, and the password is blank. Okey, we
have successfully remote the mikrotik router
using SSH.
This is the end of this video. In the next
video we will discuss about basic network
automation, so this is the last video in the
lab setup section. Thankyou for watching and
See you on the next video.